.TH VROUTED 1 "Cplant Myrinet Utilities" "Cplant" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
.B vrouted 
\- vroute server (for verifying myrinet routes on Cplant)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vrouted
\-inetd 
.br
.B vrouted
\-p portnum 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vrouted
is the server side of the 
.B vroute 
utility for myrinet route
verification on Cplant. It works in conjunction with the
.B vroute 
client via sockets and TCP/IP to provide detection of one-way 
or two-way pings between myrinet nodes. 
.B vrouted 
is based on
the Cplant myrinet implementation using the rtscts driver/module.
In addition, the rtscts module must be a late version
(after 3/30/99) with handling of PING type myrinet messages.
.P
.B vrouted 
is normally registered as a service with inetd
using the files /etc/services and /etc/inetd.conf.
.P
An invocation of 
.B vroute 
runs on three nodes: the vroute
client runs on a controller node (SSS-0 or SSS-1) and coordinates 
myrinet pings
between a pair of sender and receiver targets both connected
by myrinet and running 
the
.B vrouted
service.
.P
Unless the -p option is used, all three nodes need to have a line like
.P
vroute        8011/tcp
.P
in their /etc/services file. Here, "8011" binds a specific
port to vrouted service requests. The actual port number
should be chosen as appropriate for a given site.
In addition, the sender
and receiver, i.e. the servers, should have a line like
.P
vroute stream tcp nowait root /usr/sbin/vrouted vrouted -inetd
.P
in their /etc/inetd.conf file. This way inetd can act as a
proxy for vrouted. This simplifies operation of the client
once the servers have been installed. Accordingly, the binary for
.B vrouted
should be installed in /usr/sbin on the server nodes.
.P
As an alternative to registering 
.B vrouted 
as a service with inetd, it can also be run "by hand" on the
sender and receiver by specifying
a port with the -p switch. In this case, the 
.B vroute
client should be run on the controller using the same switch.
.P
.B vrouted
servers learn their identity as either sender or receiver from
the 
.B vroute 
client. Once contacted by a client the servers attempt to open
a pair of devices, /dev/portals and /dev/rtscts, on the local
node. Opening these devices requires that they exist as files
with the appropriate permissions (normally read and write by
world) and that the corresponding Linux kernel modules be loaded.
.B vrouted
also assumes that the rtscts MCP (Myrinet Control Program) is 
running on its local Lanai card.
.P
When contacted,
.B vrouted
uses the portals device to find out its Cplant node id (nid),
which it reports to the other server by way of the
.B vroute
client. Optionally, as determined by the client, it can verify
the client's notion of the server's nid. Its main job though is,
as sender, to initiate a myrinet ping or, as receiver,
to check for receipt of such a message. These actions are
performed by way of ioctl calls to the rtscts device. Optionally,
the client may call for a follow-up ping in the reverse direction,
i.e., from receiver to sender.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-i, \-inetd"
Run as a service registered with inetd. Incompatible with the
-p option.
.TP
.I "\-p portnum"
Specify a port number for connecting to the service. For use
when run "by hand", i.e., not in conjunction with inetd. Incompatible
with the -i option. In this case, if the server is able to do
socket initialization and is ready to accept connections it prints
a message to that effect to STDOUT.

.SH FILES
/etc/services, /etc/inetd.conf

.SH SEE ALSO
vroute(1), inetd(8)
