.TH RROUTE 1 "Cplant Myrinet Utilities" "Cplant" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
.B rroute 
\- utility (for testing a specified myrinet route on Cplant)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rroute 
\ sequence-of-route-bytes

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rroute 
must be run as the superuser.

.B rroute
is a 2-way ping utility for myrinet on Cplant. It is run 
on a service or compute node to test myrinet connectivity via
a specified route. It takes as argument a space-separated list 
of route bytes in the form 0xST where S and T are hex digits.
This list is intended to form a valid myrinet path to some
destination node in the myrinet netowrk.

.B rroute 
is a C program that makes ioctl() calls to the portals and
rtscts devices.

.B rroute 
is similar to the
.B vping 
utility except that, on the command line, it takes a 
route rather than a node id. It sends an RPING message to the node 
in question,
waits for an ack (for a hardcoded time interval), 
and reports on the result.

.B rroute 
is also similar to 
.B aroute
which sends an APING message. The difference is in the
action of the receiving node. 
For an RPING message, the return route is parsed out of the
message itself -- it is the reverse of the route used to send
the message.
When a destination node receives
an APING messages it parses out the sender's node id and the
return route is the one indexed by that id in it's in-memory routing table.

.B rroute 
must be run as the superuser.

.SH SEE ALSO
vping(1), mping(1), crawl(1), do-ping(1), get-ping(1), aroute(1)
