.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.TH yod2 1 "24 November 2001" "CPLANT MANPAGE" "Cplant Utilities"
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
.SH NAME
    

.Pp
\fByod2\fP -- Load a Cplant parallel application
.SH SYNOPSIS
    

.Pp
\fByod2\fP {\fIyod2-options\fP} 
\fBprogram-path-name\fP {\fIprogram-arguments\fP} 
.Pp
OR
.Pp
\fByod2\fP {\fIyod2-options\fP} \fBload-file-name\fP
.Pp
YOD2-OPTIONS:
.Pp
[\fB-alloc\fP] [\fB-attach\fP] [\fB-bt\fP ][\fB-D\fP] [\fB-d\fP \fIinfo-type\fP] [\fB-file\fP \fIfile-name\fP] 
.Pp
[\fB-help | -vhelp\fP] [\fB-interactive | -batch\fP][\fB-kill\fP ] [\fB-list\fP \fInode-list\fP ]
.Pp
[\fB-Log\fP] [
[\fB-NOBUF\fP] [\fB-quiet\fP] [\fB-show\fP][\fB-sleep\fP \fIwhere\fP]
.Pp
[\fB-strace\fP \fIpath-name\fP] [\fB-straceoptions\fP \fIoption-list\fP] [\fB-stracenodes\fP \fIrank-list\fP]
.Pp
[\fB-sz\fP \fInodes\fP] [\fB-timing\fP]
.Pp
[\fB-history\fP] [\fB-nice\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
    

.Pp
\fByod2\fP is a utility that loads parallel applications onto
a set of compute nodes and services requests from them.  
It has all the functionality of \fByod\fP, but in addition it
can process requests from the application to spawn child
applications, synchronize with them, and obtain information
about them.  See the \fBcplant\fP man page for an explanation
of these dynamic process creation requests.  Access to this
capability should be available from MPI eventually as well.
.Pp
It is possible to send a SIGUSR1 or SIGUSR2 to a parallel
application by sending the signal to \fByod2\fP.  \fByod2\fP will
forward the signal to all running applications it is
managing.
(Type \fIkill -s SIGUSR1 yod2-pid\fP on the node running
\fByod2\fP to send the application processes a SIGUSR1.)
.Pp
Interrupting \fByod2\fP with \f(CRcontrol-c\fR causes it to interrupt
all applications with a SIGTERM.  \fByod2\fP will await the
completion messages from the compute nodes.  If the applications
have not terminated within 10 seconds, \fByod2\fP will terminate
them with a SIGKILL.  If the SIGKILL command fails to fan out
because of a mal-functioning compute node, \fByod2\fP will
wait 10 seconds and reset all the compute nodes that were in
use by the applications.
.Pp
If you try to use \fBTotalview\fP with \fByod2\fP, you will
only be able to debug the original application loaded by
\fByod2\fP, not it's descendants.
.SH YOD2 OPTIONS
    

.Pp
.PP
.nr ll +1
.nr t\n(ll 2

.TP
.I "-alloc"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Choosing \fI-alloc\fP was useful for compute node debugging
before the availability of \fBcgdb\fP or \fBTotalview\fP.  
It displays the nodes
on which your application has been started and waits for you to press
a key before allowing the processes in your parallel application
to procede out of system code and into user code.  You 
could at this point log in to
a compute node and attach a debugger to your application to
catch it before it procedes to \fImain\fP.
Since users are discouraged from logging into compute nodes,
it would be better for you to use \fI-attach\fP and \fBcgdb\fP.
Also see the \fI-bt\fP option of yod2.

.TP
.I "-attach"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option is essentially the same as \fI-alloc\fP.  It is intended
to hold the application processes once they have started executing
at an instruction prior to user code (prior to \fImain\fP).  You can
at this point start \fBcgdb\fP to attach a debugger to a process.  See
the \fBcgdb\fP man page for more help on debugging compute node processes.
.Pp
.TP
.I "-batch"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option informs \fByod2\fP that it is not being run 
interactively.  In this case, \fByod2\fP will not wait for user
responses in certain circumstances.  For example, if one of your
application processes terminates abnormally (with a non-zero exit
code or as the result of a signal), \fByod2\fP will automatically
kill your parallel application for you.  Normally your application
is not killed if some processes are still running.
The default is that you are not running in \fIbatch\fP mode.
See \fI-interactive\fP.

.TP
.I "-bt"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option will cause \fByod2\fP to display a stack trace for
user processes that terminate abnormally.
\fByod2\fP normally displays a one-line completion message for each process in your
parallel application, listing the exit code or terminating
signal if any.  If the completion message indicates that your
application process terminated with a
signal and you wish to investigate, you may rebuild your application
with debugging symbols and re-run it with the \fI-bt\fP option of
\fByod2\fP.  The PCT will then attach a debugger to your process,
collect the stack trace when it faults, and send the stack
trace to \fByod2\fP for display.


.TP
.I "-D"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Turn on debugging of the application load.  The steps in 
the load protocol are displayed as the application load progresses. 
Application process file IO requests are displayed as \fByod2\fP
receives them.

.TP
.I "-file \fIfile-name\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
When all processes in the parallel application have completed,
\fByod2\fP displays a one line completion message for each process.
This message lists the wall-clock time elapsed from start to
finish for the process, and the exit code and terminating
signal, if any, for the process.  By default the listing goes
to stdout, but may be redirected to a file with this option.

.TP
.I "-help"
.nr bi 1
.TP
.I "-vhelp"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fI-help\fP option displays a usage message for \fByod2\fP, \fI-vhelp\fP
displays a more verbose message.

.TP
.I "-history"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option causes a history of all jobs started to be
displayed when \fByod2\fP terminates.


.TP
.I "-interactive"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option informs \fByod2\fP that it is being run interactively
by a living user.  This is the default mode.  If \fByod2\fP is
being run by a script, be certain to specify \fB-batch\fP on the
command line.  One difference between interactive mode and
batch mode is that if the load fails on one node, interactive 
mode waits for the user to interrupt \fByod2\fP with control-c
before cancelling the load on all allocated nodes.  Batch mode
goes ahead and cancels the load.

.TP
.I "-kill"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
When \fByod2\fP is run in interactive mode (the default) and a process
of a parallel application terminates abnormally, \fByod2\fP displays the
fact that the process terminated but does not kill the other
processes in the job.  The user may choose to abort the job by
terminating \fByod2\fP with control-C.
.Pp
If the user wishes \fByod2\fP to automatically kill the application when
one or more processes terminates abnormally, then use the \fI-kill\fP
option to yod2.

.TP
.I "-list \fInode-list\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
If a \fInode-list\fP is provided on the \fByod2\fP command line, then
the nodes requested will be allocated out of this list.  If 
\f(CR-sz\fR \fIn\fP is specified as well, then \fIn\fP nodes will be allocated
out of the list.  If there does not exist \fIn\fP free nodes in the list,
\fByod2\fP will display an error message.  If no \f(CR-sz\fR option is
specified, \fByod2\fP will assume you want all the nodes in the
\fInode-list\fP.
.Pp
A \fInode-list\fP is a list of node specifiers separated by commas.
A node specifier is a physical node number or
a node range.  A node range is specified by two physical
node numbers separated
by one or more dots.  No white space may be included in
the \fInode-list\fP.  Example: \f(CR-l 25..35,112..140,160,165\fR
 
.TP
.I "-Log"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option causes the compute node application load protocol 
steps to be logged to \f(CR/var/log/cplant\fR on the compute node.
It is intended for use by Cplant system debuggers.

.TP
.I "-nice"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
This option runs your job in a low priority mode.  If a regular
priority job requests nodes, your job may be killed to make
way for it.  Your job will be signalled with a SIGTERM, and 5 minutes
later with a SIGKILL, if necessary.

.TP
.I "-NOBUF"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fByod2\fP displays it's own messages and also text printed by the parallel
application processes while they are running.  Normally this
combination of buffered (yod2's status messages) and unbuffered
(application output and yod2's error messages) messages appear
sensibly on the tty that started yod2.  But if \fByod2\fP was started
by an rsh from a remote node, the output appears garbled.  The
\fI-NOBUF\fP option solves this problem by making all \fByod2\fP output unbuffered.

.TP
.I "-quiet"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
\fByod2\fP, like this man page, is quite verbose.  It lists many status and
error messages as it loads and runs a parallel application.  If you wish to have
these messages suppressed, run yod2 with the \fI-quiet\fP option.
 
.TP
.I "-show"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Cplant parallel applications are encoded with a version string.  \fByod2\fP will
not load an application encoded with the wrong version string (unless you
run \fByod2\fP with the secret \fI-xxx\fP option).  The \fI-show\fP option lists
the correct version string and the version string found in your executable.

.TP
.I "-sleep \fIwhere\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Cplant system debuggers may want to attach a debugger to a Cplant application
before it is in user code.  This option provides 4 different points at which a
the processes can be held for 60 seconds.  The options are \fI-sleep 1\fP 
(right after the fork), \fI-sleep 2\fP (just before the exec), \fI-sleep 3\fP
(right after entering system startup code), \fI-sleep 4\fP (just before
proceeding to \fImain\fP).

.TP
.I "-strace \fIpath-name\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Yet another debugging tool.  \fIpath-name\fP should be a directory which
is mounted writable on the compute node.  This option will cause the PCT
to run the application process under strace which will list all
system calls (and their arguments) made by the application process.  By
default, only the rank 0 process is traced.  The strace output goes to
a file in directory \fIpath-name\fP.  The file name contains the Cplant job ID
and the rank of the process being traced.

.TP
.I "-straceoptions \fIoption-list\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
The PCT will invoke strace with the options you specify in the quoted
string \fIoption-list\fP.   
You must use the \fI-strace\fP option with this option.

.TP
.I "-stracenodes \fIrank-list\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
The PCT will invoke \fIstrace\fP on the processes with the ranks given in the
\fIrank-list\fP.  The format for the \fIrank-list\fP is the same as the format
for a node list.  By default, strace is invoked only on the rank 0 process.
You must use the \fI-strace\fP option with this option.

.TP
.I "-sz \fInodes\fP"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
The number of compute nodes required to run the parallel
application.  One member (process) of the application will
run on each node.  The default if no node list is specified
is \f(CR-sz 1\fR.  The default if a node list is specified is
the number of nodes in the node list.

.TP
.I "-timing"
.nr bi 1
.Pp
Interested in how long the different stages of application
load are taking?  The \fI-timing\fP option times them and displays
the results in seconds.  (If our name was \fBmpirun\fP instead
of \fByod2\fP we would display it in minutes!)
.nr ll -1
.PP
.Pp
.SH RETURN VALUES
       

.Pp
The return value of \fByod2\fP indicates the result of the original
parallel application it loaded, not the descendants of that application.
\fByod2\fP returns 0 if the original application terminated normally, 
1 if the application ran and terminated abnormally, and 2 if the application
load failed and the application never started.
Abnormal termination occurs if one or more of the
processes of parallel application exited with a non-zero exit code, or
was terminated by a signal.
.SH SEE ALSO
    

.Pp
\fByod\fP
\fBpingd\fP
\fBPCT\fP
\fBbebopd\fP
\fBcgdb\fP
