.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.TH CPLANTMYNID 3 "20 November 2001" "CPLANT MANPAGE" "Cplant Runtime Libraries"
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
.SH NAME
    

.Pp
CplantMyNid, CplantMyPpid, CplantMyRank, 
.br
CplantMyPid, CplantMySize, CplantMyJobId, 
.br
CplantMyPBSid, CplantMyNidMap, CplantMyPidMap
.SH SYNOPSIS
    

.Pp
\fB#include <cplant.h>\fP
.Pp
\fBint CplantMyNid(void)\fP    
.br
\fBint CplantMyPPid(void)\fP   
.br
\fBint CplantMyRank(void)\fP   
.br
\fBint CplantMyPid(void)\fP    
.br
\fBint CplantMySize(void)\fP   
.br
\fBint CplantMyJobId(void)\fP  
.br
\fBint CplantMyPBSid(void)\fP  
.br
\fBint *CplantMyNidMap(void)\fP
.br
\fBint *CplantMyPidMap(void)\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
    

.Pp
The function \fBCplantMyNid\fP returns the physical node ID of the caller,
and \fBCplantMyPPid\fP returns the portals process ID.  These are the
identifiers required by the message passing routines in the 
Cplant portals library. \fBCplantMyPid\fP returns the callers Linux system
process ID.
.Pp
The function \fBCplantMyRank\fP returns the rank of the caller in
it's parallel application.  Process ranks are zero-based.  \fBCplantMySize\fP
returns the number of processes in it's parallel application.
.Pp
The function \fBCplantMyJobId\fP returns the Cplant job ID for the
parallel application, and \fBCplantMyPBSid\fP returns the PBS ID of
the PBS job that started the application.  (A single PBS job can
start many Cplant jobs.)
.Pp
\fBCplantMyNidMap\fP returns the list of physical node IDs of the calling
application in process rank order, and \fBCplantMyPidMap\fP returns the 
associated list of portal process IDs.  These lists may be freed by the
caller when they are no longer needed.
.SH ERRORS
    The functions do not have error conditions, since these values are always
    defined for a running Cplant application.  If a non-PBS job requests it's
    PBS job ID, an invalid ID of -1 will be returned.

.SH SEE ALSO
    

.Pp

