.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.TH INITCOLLECTIVE 3 "20 November 2001" "CPLANT MANPAGE" "Cplant Runtime Libraries"
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
.SH NAME
    

.Pp
CplantInitCollective, CplantDoneCollective
.SH SYNOPSIS
    

.Pp
\fB#include <cplant.h>\fP
.Pp
\fBint CplantInitCollective(int *\fP\fItmout\fP\fB)\fP
.Pp
\fBvoid CplantDoneCollective(void)\fP
.Pp
.SH DESCRIPTION
    

.Pp
The \fBCplant*Grp\fP functions make use of the collective
operations of the Cplant server library.  Before an application
can use these functions, every process in the parallel application
must call \fBCplantInitCollective\fP (even if only a subset 
will be using the calls).  In this call the structures
required for server library collective communication are set up,
and the processes synchronize.  Upon returning from the call,
the \fBCplant*Grp\fP functions may safely be called.
.Pp
The \fItmout\fP in seconds is the length of time the call will
wait for the synchronization to complete before determining that
the call has failed.
.Pp
\fBCplantDoneCollective\fP may be called when the collective
functions are no longer needed.  It frees the memory required
to support the collective operations of the server library.
.Pp
.Pp
.SH RETURN VALUE
    

.Pp
\fBCplantInitCollective\fP returns -1 on error and zero on success.
.SH SEE ALSO
    

.Pp
\fBCplantSpawnJobGrp\fP
\fBCplantFamilyStatusGrp\fP
\fBCplantMyParentGrp\fP
\fBCplantMySelfGrp\fP
\fBCplantInterjobBarrierGrp\fP
\fBCplantBarrierStatusGrp\fP
\fBCplantFamilyTerminationGrp\fP
\fBCplantFamilyMapGrp\fP
