.if n .ds Q \&"
.if t .ds Q ``
.if n .ds U \&"
.if t .ds U ''
.TH FAMILYMAP 3 "20 November 2001" "CPLANT MANPAGE" "Cplant Runtime Libraries"
.tr \&
.nr bi 0
.nr ll 0
.nr el 0
.de Pp
.ie \\n(ll>0 \{\
.ie \\n(bi=1 \{\
.nr bi 0
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=0 \{.IP \\(bu\}
.if \\n(t\\n(ll=1 \{.IP \\n+(e\\n(el.\}
.\}
.el .sp 
.\}
.el \{\
.ie \\nh=1 \{\
.LP
.nr h 0
.\}
.el .PP 
.\}
..
.SH NAME
    

.Pp
CplantFamilyMap, CplantFamilyMapGrp
.SH SYNOPSIS
    

.Pp
\fB#include <cplant.h>\fP
.Pp
\fBint CplantFamilyMap(jobFamilyInfo *\fP\fIjob\fP\fB, int *\fP\fInidmap\fP\fB, int *\fP\fIpidmap\fP\fB, int \fP\fIlen\fP\fB)\fP
.Pp
\fBint CplantFamilyMapGrp(jobFamilyInfo *\fP\fIjob\fP\fB, int *\fP\fInidmap\fP\fB, int *\fP\fIpidmap\fP\fB, int \fP\fIlen\fP\fB, int \fP\fInMembers\fP\fB, int *\fP\fIrankList\fP\fB, int \fP\fItmout\fP\fB)\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
    

.Pp
The function \fBCplantFamilyMap\fP returns physical node ID map and
portals process ID map for the parallel application
specified by \fIjob\fP.  These maps are required in order to use
the Cplant portals library to communicate with the application.
The \fIjob\fP is a 
handle returned by \fBCplantSpawnJob\fP, \fBCplantMyParent\fP
or \fBCplantMySelf\fP.  
.Pp
If \fInidmap\fP is not NULL, it is taken to point to an array of size \fIlen\fP.
\fInidmap[p]\fP is set to the physical node ID of the process 
with rank \fIp\fP.
Similarly, if \fIpidmap\fP is not NULL, it is taken to point to an array 
of size \fIlen\fP, and
\fIpidmap[p]\fP is set to the portals process ID of the 
rank \fIp\fP process.
.Pp
The function \fBCplantFamilyMapGrp\fP is a collective call.
Every process that participates in the
request must make the call with the same list of participants.
\fInMembers\fP is the number of processes participating in the call,
\fIrankList\fP is the list of participating process ranks, and \fItmout\fP
is the number of seconds to wait before judging a collective operation
among the pariticpants to be a failure.  In our implementation of this
call, the first process in the \fIrankList\fP makes the request to \fByod2\fP
and broadcasts the results to the others.
.Pp
If \fInMembers\fP is zero, or \fIrankList\fP is NULL, then this is taken
to mean that all processes in the application are participating.
.SH RETURN VALUE
    

.Pp
Both functions return -1 on error, and 0 on success.  
.SH SEE ALSO
    

.Pp
\fByod2\fP
\fBCplantSpawnJob\fP
\fBCplantMyParent\fP
\fBCplantMySelf\fP
